.TH MX-BOOT-REPAIR 1 "July 2026" "mx-boot-repair" "MX Linux"
.SH NAME
mx-boot-repair \- install and repair the GRUB bootloader
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mx-boot-repair
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.br
.B mx-boot-repair
.B \-\-action
.I ACTION
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mx-boot-repair
is a tool for re-installing and repairing the GRUB bootloader on MX Linux
systems. It can install GRUB to the Master Boot Record (MBR), an EFI System
Partition (ESP) or a root partition, regenerate the GRUB configuration file
(grub.cfg), rebuild the initramfs, and back up or restore boot records
(MBR/PBR). It is typically run from a live medium to repair a system that no
longer boots.
.PP
When started without options in a graphical session, a Qt GUI is shown. If no
windowing environment is detected, or if
.B \-\-cli
is given, an interactive text-mode interface is used instead. Passing
.B \-\-action
selects non-interactive operation suitable for scripting.
.PP
The program requires root privileges and will attempt to elevate itself via
.BR pkexec (1)
when started as a regular user.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help text and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-cli
Force CLI mode even when a windowing environment is available.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dry\-run
Print the actions that would be performed without executing them.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-non\-interactive
Do not prompt for input; all required values must be supplied through
options. Implied when
.B \-\-action
is given.
.TP
.BI \-\-action " name"
Action to perform:
.BR install ,
.BR repair " (alias " update\-grub ),
.BR initramfs " (alias " regenerate\-initramfs ),
.B backup
or
.BR restore .
See
.B ACTIONS
below for the options each action requires.
.TP
.BI \-\-target " name"
Installation target for the
.B install
action:
.BR mbr ,
.B esp
or
.BR root .
.TP
.BI \-\-location " dev"
Device the target refers to, e.g.
.B sda
for an MBR install or
.B sda1
for an ESP or root install. Also selects the device for
.B backup
and
.BR restore .
.TP
.BI \-\-root " dev"
Root partition of the system to repair, e.g.
.BR /dev/sda2 .
.TP
.BI \-\-boot\-device " dev"
Partition to mount at
.I /boot
inside the chroot, for systems with a separate boot partition.
.TP
.BI \-\-esp\-device " dev"
Partition to mount at
.I /boot/efi
inside the chroot.
.TP
.BI \-\-backup\-path " path"
File to write the boot record backup to, or to restore it from.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Skip confirmations; required for the
.B restore
action.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress non-error output.
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.B install
Install a new GRUB bootloader. Requires
.BR \-\-target ,
.B \-\-location
and
.BR \-\-root .
Installing to a root partition is only useful when chainloaded from another
bootloader; do not use that target unless you know what it means.
.TP
.BR repair ", " update\-grub
Regenerate the GRUB configuration file (grub.cfg) from within a chroot of the
target system. This is the most common operation, used when it is not
possible to boot into any partition to run
.BR update\-grub (8)
directly. Requires
.BR \-\-root ;
.B \-\-boot\-device
and
.B \-\-esp\-device
may be given for systems with separate boot or EFI partitions.
.TP
.BR initramfs ", " regenerate\-initramfs
Rebuild the initramfs of the target system. Requires
.BR \-\-root .
.TP
.B backup
Back up a boot block, either the master boot record (MBR) of a disk or the
partition boot record (PBR) of a partition. Only meaningful on legacy BIOS
systems, not UEFI. Requires
.B \-\-location
and
.BR \-\-backup\-path .
.TP
.B restore
Restore a previously backed up boot block. Only meaningful on legacy BIOS
systems, not UEFI. Requires
.BR \-\-location ,
.B \-\-backup\-path
and
.BR \-\-force .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Operation completed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Operation failed.
.TP
.B 2
Usage error: invalid action, or a required option was missing or invalid.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /tmp/mx\-boot\-repair.log
Log of the current run. The previous log is kept as
.IR /tmp/mx\-boot\-repair.log.old .
.SH EXAMPLES
Start the interactive text-mode interface:
.PP
.nf
    mx-boot-repair --cli
.fi
.PP
Regenerate the GRUB configuration of the system on /dev/sda2:
.PP
.nf
    mx-boot-repair --action repair --root /dev/sda2
.fi
.PP
Reinstall GRUB to the EFI System Partition sda1 for the system on /dev/sda2:
.PP
.nf
    mx-boot-repair --action install --target esp --location sda1 --root /dev/sda2
.fi
.PP
Back up the MBR of sda, then restore it:
.PP
.nf
    mx-boot-repair --action backup --location sda --backup-path /root/mbr.img
    mx-boot-repair --action restore --location sda --backup-path /root/mbr.img --force
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR grub\-install (8),
.BR update\-grub (8),
.BR update\-initramfs (8),
.BR dracut (8)
.PP
Full documentation is available in
.IR /usr/share/doc/mx\-bootrepair/mx\-boot\-repair.html .
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Adrian for MX Linux <https://mxlinux.org>.
.PP
Report bugs at
.UR https://github.com/mxlinux/mx\-bootrepair/issues
.UE .
